.TH ipmilan 8 06/26/12 OpenIPMI "IPMI LAN to System Interface Converter"

.SH NAME
ipmilan \- IPMI LAN to System Interface Converter

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ipmilan
.RB [ \-c
.IR configfile ]
.RB [ \-i
.IR ipmidevice ]
.RB [ \-d ]
.RB [ \-n ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B ipmilan
daemon allows an IPMI system interface using the OpenIPMI device
driver to be accessed using the IPMI 1.5 or 2.0 LAN protocol.

.B ipmilan
supports the full authentication capabilities of the IPMI LAN
protocol.

.B ipmilan
supports multiple IP addresses for fault-tolerance.  Note that
messages coming in on an address are always sent back out on the same
address they came in.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-c\  config-file
Set the configuration file to one other than the default of
.I "/etc/ipmi_lan.conf"
.TP
.B \-n
Stops  the  daemon  from  forking  and  detaching  from the controlling
terminal. This is useful for running from init.
.TP
.B \-d
Turns on debugging to standard output.  You generally have to use
.B \-n
with this.


.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuration is accomplished through the file
.IR /etc/ipmi_lan.conf .
A file with another name or path may be specified using the
.B \-c
option.  See the ipmi_lan config file man page for more details.

.SH SECURITY
.B ipmilan
implements normal IPMI security.  The default is no access for anyone,
so the default is pretty safe, but be careful what you add, because
this is access to control your box.  \fBstraight\fP and \fBnone\fP
authorizations are not recommended, you should probably stick with \fBmd2\fP
or \fBmd5\fP.

.SH "SIGNALS"
.TP 0.5i
.B SIGHUP
.B ipmilan
should handle SIGHUP and reread it's configuration files.  However, it
doesn't right now.  It might in the future, for now you will have to
kill it and restart it.  Clients should handle reconnecting in this
case.  If they don't, they are broken.

.SH "ERROR OUTPUT"
At startup, all error output goes to stderr.  After that, all error
output goes to syslog.

.SH "FILES"
/etc/ipmi_lan.conf

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ipmi_lan (5), ipmi_ui (1), openipmish (1)

.SH "KNOWN PROBLEMS"
Currently,
.B ipmilan
does not implement writing the config file.  IPMI commands to change
configuration options are accepted, but the permanent writing of the
changes does not currently work.

.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Corey Minyard <cminyard@mvista.com>
