.TH openipmi_conparms 7 05/13/03 OpenIPMI "Connection Parameters for OpenIPMI"

.SH NAME
openipmi_cmdparms \- Connection parmeters for OpenIPMI

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B smi
.IR "smi-num"

.B lan
.RB [ \-U
.IR "username" ]
.RB [ \-P 
.IR "password" ]
.RB [ \-p[2]
.IR "port" ]
.RB [ \-A
.IR "authtype" ]
.RB [ \-L
.IR "privilege" ]
.RB [ \-s ]
.RB [ \-Ra
.IR "auth alg" ]
.RB [ \-Ri
.IR "integ alg" ]
.RB [ \-Rc
.IR "conf algo" ]
.RB  [ \-Rl ]
.RB  [ \-Rk
.IR "bmc key" ]
.RB [ \-H
.IR "hackname" ]
.IR "host"
[
.IR "host" ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The connection parameters for OpenIPMI vary depending on the
connection type.  This document describes the standard connection
types; others may be available from OEMs.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I smi-num
The SMI interface for the local connection.  There may be more than
one BMC connection on a system and they are generally numbered, like
\fB/dev/ipmi0\fP, \fB/dev/ipmi1\fP, etc.

.TP
.BI \-U\  username
Use the given \fIusername\fP for the LAN connection.  If none is given, then
no username is used.

.TP
.BI \-P\  password
The \fIpassword\fP to use for the connection.  If none is given, the user is
assumed to have an empty password

.TP
\fB\-p\fP[\fB2\fP] \fIport\fP
The UCP \fIport\fP to connect to.  This defaults to the standard 623 port,
so it is not necessary unless a special port is required.  Note that
since you can have two connections (hosts),
.B \-p
is for the first host and
.B \-p2
is for the second host.

.TP
.BI \-A\  authtype
The \fIauthentication type\fP to use, one of \fBrmcp+\fP, \fBmd5\fP, \fBmd2\fP, \fBstraight\fP, or
\fBnone\fP.  If you don't supply this, the most secure one available is
chosen, in the order given in the previous list.

.TP
.BI \-L\  privilege
The \fIprivilege\fP to use for the connection.  Lower privileges cannot
execute some commands.  Privileges are: \fBcallback\fP, \fBuser\fP, \fBoperator\fP,
\fBadmin\fP, and \fBoem\fP.  The default is \fBadmin\fP.

.TP
.BI \-Ra\  authentication\ algorithm
Set the \fIRMCP+ authentication algorithm\fP to use.  Options are: \fBbmcpick\fP,
\fBrakp_none\fP, \fBrakp_hmac_sha1\fP, and \fBrakp_hmac_md5\fP.  The \fBbmcpick\fP option is
used by default, which means the BMC picks the algorithm it wants to
use.

.TP
.BI \-Ri\  integrity\ algorithm
The \fIRMCP+ integrity algorithm\fP to use.  This ensures that the data has
not be altered between the sender and receiver.  Valid options are:
\fBbmcpick\fP, \fBnone\fP, \fBhmac_sha1\fP, \fBhmac_md5\fP, and \fBmd5\fP.  The \fBbmcpick\fP option is
used by default, which means the BMC picks the algorithm it wants to
use.

.TP
.BI \-Rc\  confidentiality\ algorithm
The \fIRMCP+ confidentiality (encryption) algorithm\fP to use.  This keeps
evesdroppers from seeing the data.  Valid values are: \fBbmcpick\fP,
\fBaes_cbc_128\fP, \fBxrc4_128\fP, and \fBxrc_40\fP.  The \fBbmcpick\fP option is used by
default, which means the BMC picks the algorithm it wants to use.

.TP
.B \-Rl
If this is specified, the username is looked up using the privilege
level along with the username.  This allows the same name to have
different passwords with different privilege levels.

.TP
.BI \-Rk\  BMC\ Key
If the system requires two-key lookups, this specifies the \fIsecond key\fP
(the BMC key) to use.  This is ignored if two-key lookups are not
enabled by the BMC.

.TP
.BI \-H\  hackname
Well, it always happens.  Things in the field don't work quite like
they are supposed to.  There was some vagueness in the first IPMI
specs and different vendors interpreted RMCP+ in different ways.  This
allows different options to be supported.  Try different hacks if your
RMCP+ systems don't authenticate properly.  These are:

.RS
.TP
.B rakp3_wrong_rolem
Some systems use the incorrect Role(m) field
in a specific authentication message (the RAKP3 message).  This is a
common problem.

.TP
.B rmcpp_integ_sik
The original IPMI 2.0 spec specified the
incorrect key to use for the integrity key.  This forces use of the
Session Initiation Key.  The default is to use K(1)
.RE

.TP
.B \-s
Make two connections to the BMC.  This means the BMC has two different
IP addresses/ports that are equivalent.  If this is specified, a
second host must be supplied.  This is not the same as two connections
to two different BMCs.  This must be a connection to the same BMC.

.TP
.I host
The IP address (either by name lookup or specified directly) to
connect to.  If the
.B \-s
is specified, two hosts must be supplied.

.P
The
.BR \-Ra ,
.BR \-Ri ,
.BR \-Rc ,
.BR \-Rk
and
.B \-Rl
options only apply to RMCP+ connections and will be ignored if the
connection does not support RMCP+ or if a non-RMCP+ authentication
type is specified.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ipmish (8),
.BR openipmicmd (8),
.BR solterm (1)

.SH "KNOWN PROBLEMS"
This is excessively complicated, but the defaults should be good.

.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Corey Minyard <cminyard@mvista.com>
