.TH openipmish 1 05/13/03 OpenIPMI "Shell interface to an IPMI system"

.SH NAME
openipmish \- Shell interface to an IPMI system

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B openipmish
.RI [ option ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B openipmish
is a command interpreter that gives the full power of the OpenIPMI
library to a user-level command language.  It is designed so it can
easily be driven with a scripting language like TCL, it has
well-formed output.

.B openipmish
starts up with no connections or anything of that nature.  You must
enter commands to make connections to domains.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-dmsg
Turn on message debugging, this will dump all messages to debug log output.
.TP
.B \-\-drawmsg
Turn on raw message debugging, this will dump all low-level messages to
debug log output.  This differes from normal message debugging in that all
protocol messages are also dumped, not just IPMI messages.
.TP
.B \-\-dmem
Turn on memory debugging, this will cause memory allocation and
deallocations to be checked.  When the program terminates, it will
dump all memory that was not properly freed (leaked).
.TP
.B \-\-dlock
Turn on lock debugging, this will check lock operations to make sure
that locks are help in all the proper places and make sure that locks
are properly nested.
.TP
.B \-\-snmp
Enable the SNMP trap handler.
.B openipmish
must be compiled with SNMP code enabled for this option to be available.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Help output

.SH COMMANDS

.B openipmish
follows the standard command syntax defined in
.BR ipmi_cmdlang (7).
See that for the details on most commands.  The IPMI manual that comes
with OpenIPMI will also be quite handy.

.B openipmish
defines some commands that are not in the standard command language.
These are:

.TP
.B read
Read and execute commands from the given file.

.TP
.B exit
Quit

.TP
.BR redisp_cmd\ on | off
Normally, openipmish redisplays the command line when an event comes in.  This
is nice for interactive use, but bad for scripting.  This lets you turn
that function on and off.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ipmi_cmdlang (7),
.BR ipmi_ui (1)

.SH "KNOWN PROBLEMS"
None

.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Corey Minyard <cminyard@mvista.com>
