.TH openipmicmd 1 05/13/03 OpenIPMI "An IPMI Command Interface"

.SH NAME
openipmicmd \- An IPMI Command Interface

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B openipmicmd
.RB [ \-k
.IR "entry-to-execute" ]
.BI "<connection parms>"

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR openipmicmd
program allows a user to execute direct IPMI commands.  It can work
with direct interface with the OpenIPMI driver or with IPMI LAN
interfaces.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-k\  entry-to-execute
Execute a single command an exit.

.TP
.BI <connection parms>
The parameters for the connection depend on the connection type.
These are all described in openipmi_conparms (7)

.SH COMMANDS

Once up, you can execute commands in the user interface.  Note that
commands and responses are asynchronous, you issue a command and the
interface returns immediately.  When the response comes back, it will
be dumped on your console.  That's a little strange looking, but IPMI
is ansychronous underneath.  Note that the \fB\-k\fP option is synchronous,
it will wait for the response or a timeout before returning.

.TP
\fB0f\fP \fIlun\fP \fInetfn\fP \fIcmd\fP [\fIdata1\fP [\fIdata2\fP ...]]
Send a command to the BMC you are connected to.

.TP
\fIchannel\fP [\fBipmb\fP] \fIIPMB-addr\fP \fIlun\fP \fInetfn\fP [\fBseq\fP] \fIcmd\fP [\fIdata1\fP [\fIdata2\fP ...]]
Send a command to a device on the IPMB bus.  The "\fBipmb\fP" string is
optional.  The \fBseq\fP must be provided if the netfn is a response (an
odd number).  It must be the same sequence number that came in on the command
in the "Command Sequence = seq" part of the command.

.TP
\fIchannel\fP \fB00\fP \fIIPMB-addr\fP \fIlun\fP \fInetfn\fP \fIcmd\fP [\fIdata1\fP [\fIdata2\fP ...]]
Send a broadcast command to a device on the IPMB bus.

.TP
\fIchannel\fP \fBlan\fP \fIhandle\fP \fIremote-swid\fP \fIlocal-swid\fP \fIlun\fP \fInetfn\fP \fIcmd\fP [\fIdata1\fP [\fIdata\fP ...]]
Send a command to a device over a LAN channel.  Note that this not the
same as a LAN connection.  This sends a message through a local BMC to
a remote system that is hooked up with a LAN connection.

.TP
\fBtest_lat\fP \fIcount\fP \fIcommand\fP
Executes the given \fIcommands\fP (one of the previous commands) \fIcount\fP times
and gives the average time per command to execute.  Note that "\fIcount\fP"
is hexadecimal.

.TP
.B help
Display some help.

.TP
\fBregcmd\fP \fInetfn\fP \fIcmd\fP
Register to receive the given command.  If the driver receives an
external command, it will print it out.  This only works with system
interface connections, it will not work on LAN connections.

.TP
\fBunregcmd\fP \fInetfn\fP \fIcmd\fP
Remove a command registration.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ipmi_ui (1),
.BR ipmilan (8),
.BR openipmi_conparms (7)

.SH "KNOWN PROBLEMS"
The asychronous nature of the program can be annoying.

.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Corey Minyard <cminyard@mvista.com>
