.TH solterm 1 05/13/03 OpenIPMI "IPMI Serial over LAN program"

.SH NAME
solterm \- An IPMI Serial over LAN program

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B solterm

.BI "<connection parms>"
.RB [ \-e
.IR "escape_char" ]
.RB [ \-notencrypted ]
.RB [ \-notauthenticated ]
.RB [ \-bitrate
.IR (9600|19200|38400|57600|115200) ]
.RB [ -alerts
.IR (succeed|defer|fail) ]
.RB [ \-holdoff ]
.RB [ \-ack-retries
.IR "n" ]
.RB [ \-ack-timeout
.IR "microseconds"]
.RB [ \-v ]
.RB [ \-q ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR solterm
program allows a user to make a remote serial connection over IPMI.
The requires that the remote system support IPMI 2.0 Serial Over LAN.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI <connection\ parms>
The parameters for the connection depend on the connection type.
These are all described in openipmi_conparms (7)

.TP
.BI \-e\  escape_char
The character to use to escape, or exit, the program.  Entering this
chatacter right after a newline is entered causes the program to go
into command mode.  A single character after this performs a command.
The default escape character is "~" as shown below.  Suppported
commands are:
.RS
.IP ~.
Terminate the program
.IP ~B
Send a serial BREAK over the connection
.IP ~F
Flush all buffers
.IP ~R
Assert the Ring Indicator (RI) line
.IP ~r
Deassert the Ring Indicator (RI) line
.IP ~D
Assert DCD and DSR lines
.IP ~d
Deassert DCD and DSR lines
.IP ~C
Pause the output using CTS
.IP ~c
Put CTS under BMC control
.IP ~?
Help on escape commands
.IP ~~
Enter the escape character twice to send it.
.RE

.TP
.BI \-notencrypted
Do not encrypt the SOL data going over the connection.

.TP
.BI \-notauthenticated
Do not do integrity checks on the SOL data going over the connection.

.TP
.BI \-bitrate
Set the bitrate to the given value.  The default is whatever the BMC
has set it to.

.TP
.BI \-alerts
This specifies what to do if a alert that requires a callout occurs on
the line. 
.RS
.IP succeed
specifies that serial/modem alerts are to succeed while
SoL is active.
.IP deferred
specifies that serial/modem alerts are to be deferred for
the duration of the SoL session.
.IP fail
specifies that serial/modem alerts automatically fail during
the SoL session. This is the default.
.RE

.TP
.BI \-holdoff
Specifies that CTS, DTR, and DSR are to be deasserted at the start of
the SoL session so that the configuration may be modifeid before the
handshake is released.

.TP
.BI \-v
Be more verbose.  Maybe specified multiple time for more output.

.TP
.BI \-q
Be less verbose.  Maybe specified multiple time for less output.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR openipmi_conparms (7)

.SH "KNOWN PROBLEMS"
None

.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Darius Davis <dariusd@users.sourceforge.net>
